---
layout: update
tag: Developer Update
date: 2024-12-09
author: solivagant
thumbnail: update-background.jpg
title: Upkeep in the Tari gardens
class: subpage
---

This week's update is a small one - the community's has been hammering away at issues and bugs that have cropped up across the various projects to improve overall stability as the year draws to a close.

Sometimes keeping a Zen garden is about designing new patterns, and sometimes it's about raking ***a lot*** of sand.

## Universe
### P2Pool
P2Pool has seen the most attention over the past two weeks, with many fixes coming in. We're adamant that it'll be part and parcel of Tari, but it remains a challenging feature to implement - the network interactions have proven a difficult beast to tame, in particular ensuring the various groups of peers aren't ending up on islands - able to view themselves across the waves but unable to sync their activities effectively. These are interactions and complications you only really pick up once you're live and there is a signficant amount of people on the network. Again, we thank you for your patience in this regard.

Just some of the (many) fixes to P2Pool:
* Corrected an issue with the chain verification process that resulted in a panic
* Ensure disconnection from peers on older versions after a peer exchange
* Avoid requesting blocks from peers that are on a lower height than the requester
* Added pinned Tokio intervals for multiple required asycnhronus checks
* Adjusted the minimum SHA3X difficulty
* Corrected an issue regarding target difficulty being adjusted outside of a block before the block is commited, which has implications for the integrity of mined blocks.

## Minotari
Mintotari saw another release candidate go out with a couple of new features and improvements, listed below:

* A new service will periodically get checkpoints from a DNS server and validate against their own state, removing the risk of miners avoiding orphan chain mining. 
* Fixed an issue specific to MacOS and Linux that would cause the base node to enter a unresponsive state if you pressed Ctrl+C multiple times, the command line interface (CLI) would enter an undefined state that prevented further interaction. https://github.com/tari-project/tari/pull/6697
* Reduced error log spam that occurred when on a unsupported network. https://github.com/tari-project/tari/pull/6696
* Added wallet connectivity timeout so long dial-peer failures can be managed timeously.
* Changed Tari Pulse - Minotari's checkpoint monitoring service - to run at fixed intervals.

## Aurora Wallet

The Aurora wallet saw a new release a couple of days ago, which incorporates some of the updates and fixes discussed in our previous update and some new ones. You can download the latest versions on the [Apple App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tari-aurora/id1503654828?ls=1) and [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.tari.android.wallet&hl=en_US)